# Managing Customer Expectations

What’s the difference between a successful digital manufacturing project and one that fails to meet its objectives? In many cases, manufacturers start off on projects that are not well-suited to the levels of technical or organizational readiness of their individual plants or the enterprise itself.

Through careful project planning and communication, you can help customers select the right projects, while at the same time manage their expectations.

## Considering Common Data Issues

It is essential that you fully evaluate the customer’s data landscape rather than relying solely on their answers in the Technical Readiness assessment because their own viewpoint may not be entirely accurate. For more information, see [Evaluating the Project Landscape](/evaluating-the-project-landscape.md).

If you do not properly evaluate the customer’s technical readiness, you may experience a number of challenges related to the data itself, including:

* **Data Issues: **The data capabilities of the customer’s specific plants and/or lines may not be suitable for the projects selected. Consider the following factors:

  * **Data Availability: **Does the customer have the data payload available in real time?

  * **Data Quality: **Does the customer have data in which reading a clean signal is straightforward? For example, the customer’s quality records are inconsistently formatted or critical machines do not include the needed sensors \(or are unconnected\).

  * **Data Fitness: **Does the customer’s data map to the problem space/value proposition? For example, the customer lacks serialization in their process.

* **Knowledge and Operational Gaps: **Plants need an onsite team that understands relationships between data and processes \(i.e., how the data generated by machine sensors represents the manufacturing process\). Manufacturers often lack the expertise or have not committed the right staff to the project. Operationally, it is critical that the local team is brought into the project and has the change management capability to impact the changes outlined in the project objectives.

* **Inability to Scale: **The highest value is achieved when digital manufacturing projects scale across multiple machines, lines, and facilities, making use of a broader set of data and applying the resulting insights wherever they are relevant. To accomplish this, a project must be designed to scale both to adjacent processes and to like processes. The following factors may prohibit scaling:

  * Manual manipulation of data

  * Wide variation in data sources \(e.g., not installing software updates so machines are running different versions of software\)

  * Lack of IT resources

  ## Avoiding a Narrow Project Scope

  Whenever possible, steer the customer toward a wider project scope. Promising to resolve a single issue or provide a solution for a unique error that is not repeatable will not have as much impact on the digital transformation of the enterprise as a whole. Instead, work with the customer to find a solution that, even at limited scope, can be used to understand and solve many types of issues that will improve the entire enterprise. Through the data analysis, our manufacturing analytics platform can be used to find that interesting and much-needed improvement.

  Consider the following issues that arise if the project scope is too narrow:

  * **Testing the Technology \(i.e., Explaining Something Known\): **The customer finds an issue and works internally to resolve it \(sometimes using manual, one-off fixes\). The customer now wants our Sight Machine Data Science team to analyze the data to come up with the exact same solution to prove that the platform works. The problem is that the customer’s original solution was a patchwork, based on too many factors that we may not be able to replicate.

  * **Validating Against Hunches \(i.e., Explaining Someone's Guess\): **This is similar to the hypothetical situation above, but this time the customer has not clearly identified and resolved the problem. Instead, the customer has a hunch and wants our Sight Machine Data Science team to analyze data to confirm that bias. In this situation, the data may not actually confirm the hunch.



