## Considering Common Data Issues

It is essential that you fully evaluate the customer’s data landscape rather than relying solely on their answers in the Technical Readiness assessment because their own viewpoint may not be entirely accurate. For more information, see [Evaluating the Project Landscape](/evaluating-the-project-landscape.md).

If you do not properly evaluate the customer’s technical readiness, you may experience a number of challenges related to the data itself, including:

* **Data Issues: **The data capabilities of the customer’s specific plants and/or lines may not be suitable for the projects selected. Consider the following factors:

  * **Data Availability: **Does the customer have the data payload available in real time?

  * **Data Quality: **Does the customer have data in which reading a clean signal is straightforward? For example, the customer’s quality records are inconsistently formatted or critical machines do not include the needed sensors \(or are unconnected\).

  * **Data Fitness: **Does the customer’s data map to the problem space/value proposition? For example, the customer lacks serialization in their process.

* **Knowledge and Operational Gaps: **Plants need an onsite team that understands relationships between data and processes \(i.e., how the data generated by machine sensors represents the manufacturing process\). Manufacturers often lack the expertise or have not committed the right staff to the project. Operationally, it is critical that the local team is brought into the project and has the change management capability to impact the changes outlined in the project objectives.

* **Inability to Scale: **The highest value is achieved when digital manufacturing projects scale across multiple machines, lines, and facilities, making use of a broader set of data and applying the resulting insights wherever they are relevant. To accomplish this, a project must be designed to scale both to adjacent processes and to like processes. The following factors may prohibit scaling:

  * Manual manipulation of data

  * Wide variation in data sources \(e.g., not installing software updates so machines are running different versions of software\)

  * Lack of IT resources



